# CS50 Web Final Project Submission
This is a submission of the capstone project of CS50 web. It is meant to show what skills we have acquired over the period of taking the course. 
## Distinctiveness and Complexity
This project is different from other projects in the course because of how it allows the user to interact with the articles in the the application. This project saves articles in markdown in a django model and then presents the articles in html to the user who wants to read that particular article. Users also have the capabilty to add articles to the database under a particular category of the Sustainable development goals. The entire web application is dedicated towards the Sustainable development goals. Users that are logged into the webapp also have a capability to add a project to the article and to add the goals to the project that are separated by commas. The user can then mark these goals as if in a todolist and they can see them being displayed as striked off once a goal has been achieved. Users can only mark goals that they have writen themselves. Users also have the capability to see all other projects that on the system projects that have all the goals completed have all the goals displayed with a strikethrough.
### How To run the file web app
If you have python3 installed install django and install markdown2 using pip. change directory into the finalproject folder in your shell then run `python manage.py makemigrations sdg` then run `python manage.py migrate` then run `python manage.py runserver` after which you can visit the url provided by your shell and see what the app does. you can also run `python manage.py createsuperuser` in order to be able to edit and delete articles and projects.
### Files Created:
#### files in the Static directory
There's a static directory that contains all the images that are used in this final project. The images are there to show the icons for the Sustainable development goals which are the inspiration for this project. It also has a styles.css file that contains some of the css for this project. Bootstrap was where almost all the css from this project came from. All of the items in the styles.css file have a margin and padding so that when items are displayed the content isn't too close to the edge of the screen
#### files in the templates directory
the templates in the templates directory are the following:
- addarticle.html
- addproject.html
- categories.html
- index.html 
- layout.html
- login.html
- register.html
The addarticle.html is a page that renders the form for adding an article only. The categories.html page displays all the categories and has some javascript at the bottom of the page. This javascript allows the user to click on a category to in order to see the articles that are written under that category. The user is also able to click on any article displayed on the page and view the article's content. Fetch request's were used in order for this to be achieved. A fetch request is made once a a category is clicked then all articles with the said category are  returned back as the response which enabled the adding of each article title to the page. An event listener for a click is also added to the page so that when an article title is clicked the content of that article is displayed. The index page is there to display all the articles in the database stating with the latest articles. each article is displayed with the category it's under and also the title of the article. Javascript is also used at the bottom of the page to allow the use to be able to click on an article then using a fetch request the content of the article is displayed. The addproject.html file is there to display the following content:
1. all the projects that the user has made
2. all the projects made by other users
3. an ability to add a new project.
Javascript is used to hide the other two parts of the on the page for a more pleasant user experience. So that when the user is viewing their projects they can do so without seeing any of the other parts of the page and when they want to add a new project they are able to do so without the page being filled with content from the other parts of the page
#### Other files i.e models.py, urls.py and views.py
The models.py file has three models one for the User one for the Articles and one for projects. The Article model has field for a foreign key which to the user and text fields for the markdown content, category and title and a dated field to allow for ordering the articles by date. The project's model has simillar field and two more one for the goals that are incomplete and one for the completed goals that have been completed. urls.py has all the urls used in this project. In the views.py file i first have the index function which just renders a page with all the articles in the database. I was only interested in the titles so in the index.html file only the titles are show though clicking on a title opens a title this is achieved with javascript. The add_article function just get's content from a form and adds it to the database it also renders the form on which to write the content. The categories function also just renders all the categories in our webpage which are the 17 sustainable development goals. I tried having one variable at the top of file for the list of categories but it stopped the functions from working correctly by not rendering the categories so I opted to paste the categories list in every function in which in refer to it so that the everything works well. the category_view function returns a queryset of the articles in each category. article_view also returns the article that was requested for. add_project function renders the page with the form for adding a project and accepts information from the page to put it in the database. When a new project is added the user is redirected to the project page so that they can see the project they just added. this page also shows information on the projects for just the user and all the projects in the database. The mark_project function is there so that users are able to mark project goals as done and to put them in the completed goals field of each project. This is so the user is able to see which goals of each project have been completed. The rest of the project code is just code for registering users, logging them in and logging them out